Final assessment of Civil Rights Project
Dr. William Campbell
April 29, 2023

This was an ambitious project that aimed to analyze the rhetoric of ten speeches by eight Civil Rights leaders representing three different organizations or schools of thought. The markup was designed to allow analysis of the actions advocated by the speakers (active/violent resistance, self-defense, and passive resistance), as well as the attitudes of the speakers towards various organizations and groups of people. The markup also contained attempts at more complexity, including sub-categories of actions advocated, that were not used in the final project. It would appear that the complexity of the markup was in fact over-ambitious and as a result it took longer than it should have, making later stages of the project rushed. On the one hand, it is not uncommon for a project to include some markup that does not get used: sometimes it is only in a later stage that it becomes clear that certain features aren't usable, and it seems wiser to include the complexity from the beginning to avoid having to go back through all that text again. But that can have the effect of "making the perfect the enemy of the good": in a class project, and especially a time-limited team project, it is best to be cautious about biting off more than one can chew.

All of that said, part of education is learning from what did not go according to plan. And one of the challenges raised by the ambitious markup was an attempt to grade the positivity or negativity of each reference by each speaker to each group or organization. This is one of the fundamental issues that Digital Humanities raises. We are faced with Humanities texts that speak in ambiguous shades, but to make them Digital, we have to assign precise numerical values to them. And this is both a) HARD and b) inherently subjective. Wrestling with that problem is often some of the most fruitful mental effort, and ideally it should be done according to a well-developed and clear set of distinctions developed by a consensus of the team through healthy internal debate. It appears that the team struggled at times for consistency because there was not the level of consensus that this type of work requires. Getting to that consensus is always messy, with a lot of healthy give and take needed, but embracing that process is indispensible.

Features of the site:

The site organization is clean and easy to follow, and the framing of photos is effective. Because the photos are in black and white, keeping the rest of the site in the same color scheme -- which under other circumstances would make a site look very 1999 -- was exactly the right choice. The only splashes of color on the site are the histograms, and while the red-yellow-green color scheme for those was probably inspired by something like traffic-light colors, those are also colors that show up on a lot of African flags and African textiles that have been used and worn symbolically as a reclamation of African heritage.

The histograms themselves are easy to understand and interpret, to a point. Where they needed more is not in the graphics but in the textual framing. Above the main one on the home page, we still see:
    POSITIVE OR NEGATIVE RHETORICAL ACTION
    Brief Explanation of SVG.
No doubt a brief explanation was to be written and you ran out of time. Unfortunately, the result is that while the team and I know what "rhetorical action" means -- the types of action that are being advocated for or mentioned by the speaker -- that should have been explained here. Hints to this effect are scattered around the site, but it's not clear on this page, where it is perhaps the most important.

The network graphs are fine, though they never quite realized the original ambition: to color-code the edges according to the positive-to-negative scale. Network graphs also could have been more useful if multiple speakers, or at least all three Civil Right movements, appeared together with all the groups/organizations that more than one of them mentioned. That would have made it possible to compare who spoke about whom and how much: for example, who mentioned the police the most frequently? Nonetheless, the graphs even as they are are at least as effective as one of the possible alternatives, namely SVG bar graphs; and the team is to be given credit for choosing to learn and use Kumu network-analysis software together with XQuery-to-JSON, which is something I have not done before and therefore with which I could offer little help. That was a good kind of ambition.

The timeline is neat and easy to use. There are only two features that might have been different. One is that the mouseover to pop up the info box only works if the mouse is close enough to the center: if a user is scrolling through and the mouse cursor is off to the side, they might not even know that the popups exist. The boxes could have been expanded to achieve that, or a note at the top of the timeline page could have pointed to the mouseover feature. The other is that it might have been helpful somehow to emphasize the speeches, making them visually different so a user can easily see where the speeches are in their historical context. But these are minor quibbles.

The documentation in the About page is helpful; some discussion of your XQuery and how it works would have been beneficial as well.

Coding is hard. But so is interpreting historical documents; and so is working with other people. Successfully completing a project for this class always requires doing all three. The score each student receives may differ, based on each one's work in all three areas.
